We'll come back.
So far our functions are capable of outputting a value using return but they can't accept any inputs.
And you know all the built in functions are almost all of them that we've seen things like print that
accepts and input.
Same thing with you know a list of pens we need to tell it what to append those inputs are really important
because they affect how the function works.
So in this video we're going to see how to alter our functions to accept inputs.
Fortunately it's really easy.
So we have this square function that always squares 7.
But let's alter it so that we can do things like square 4 or square 8 and it should return.
In this case of squaring 4 it should return 16.
And in squaring 8 A template is 64.
So it should return 64.
So to do this I'm going to remove this isn't a new file.
I retain the original file.
If you don't reference it.
But this one I'm calling squared up p y.
And let's just start over.
And what I'm going to do is define the function this time with Def and I'll just call it square and
we can start just like this.
But we need to tell this function to accept a parameter and we can give it any name we want we could
call it X we could call it.
Numb number we could even call it string even though it won't be a string.
It's totally up to us.
Just like naming a variable but we want to abide by the same rules that we follow when naming variables.
So we don't want to you know put it in all caps or something or have it start with a number that sort
of thing.
So let's just call this name.
We want to give it a common sense name not make sense.
And all we will do in here is return numb either none.
Sometimes numb or numb to the second power just like that and we'll save.
And now everything should work if we square four and square eight.
Everything should be good.
The only thing is we are not printing those values out.
We're just returning them but they're not being captured in a variable.
So let's just try printing them both just like this.
OK.
So we've defined our square function.
It takes a single parameter totally up to us to name this whatever we want but just by adding this here
it tells Python hey this function called Square is now going to accept a single parameter.
It's expecting just one thing.
So we'll see how we can have multiple things.
And we're just going to call it numb and it's just a way of saying whatever the user or the code passes
in when Square is executed just give you the temporary name of Gnome.
So let's run it.
So this is going to be Python 3 square squared up he y.
And we get 16 and 64.
So we success we have written a function that accepts an input and spits out a version of that input.
This time it's squared.
Here's another example.
We have this silly sing Happy Birthday function that always sings the exact same song but in real life
the song is happy birthday to you birthday to you Happy birthday dear somebody.
How about Happy birthday dear Charlie.
Happy birthday to you.
So let's alter that so that it accepts a name and we can call it person call it name.
And then all that we want to alter is right here.
Print Happy birthday dear.
And then here will stick the name and we could make that an extra.
Or we could use concatenation But this is a nicer way of doing it.
And now when we call sing happy birthday.
If I just left it like this I'll just do it one time and I promise.
What do you think we'll see.
So let's try it on three.
And I called this one saying why and what do you know.
Missing one required positional argument name.
So there's an error here because we didn't pass in the parameter.
Technically it's called an argument in this case we'll go over that distinction in just a moment but
we didn't pass something in.
And so it's unhappy.
So we need to do that.
So let's pass in Rashida and try it now and never go.
Happy birthday to you.
Blah blah blah.
Happy birthday dear Ashita.
So now can alter the behavior of this.
Let's do another one with Nicholas and Rashida this time and we get both versions to the song.
OK.
So we've seen how to do this with a single parameter.
If we take a look at the slides there is an example now that has two parameters.
So this function is called ad and I've just called the different parameters a and b.
We separate them with commas so we can have as many as we'd like but they need to be separated with
commas.
Call them whatever you want.
And in this case all we do is return the sum of a and b a plus b.
Or here's another example.
This one is called Multiply.
And we're calling the first parameter first and the second one second.
And then we return first times second and to call it all we have to do is pass in two values separated
by a comma and whatever the first one Peston is will be associated with first whatever the second one
will be called second.
Now it's important to know that these names these parameters only exist inside of the function.
So if down here I tried to do a print name or even afterwards like in this example let's just do Nicolas
we sing Happy Birthday Nicholas inside of this function name it refers to Nicolas when we pass it in.
But outside it doesn't exist at all.
And we get an error.
Name is not defined so that's important to know.
This is not a variable declaration of parameter something different.
Let's quickly talk about naming our parameters.
So here's an example that just prints out or returns and string that just takes a first name and a last
name and it puts them together with a space in the middle instead of a string that says your full name
is blank blank.
This is a better example a better way of writing this function.
All that's changed are the parameter names.
So rather than string one string two it makes a lot more sense.
It makes your code much easier to understand to have parameters with names that actually make sense
that are semantic.
So in this case first name and last name.
That's what these are technically string one and string two is totally fine.
We could also have gone with banana and cucumber and it wouldn't change the behavior of the function.
But this is just about making it legible.
Making it make sense.
So the next thing this is kind of a nuanced weird topic not really important to actually writing functions
with parameters but important when discussing them.
There's a difference between parameters and arguments.
You might hear them used interchangeably.
It's very easy thing to do but they are different parameters.
Refer to the variable in a method definition so actually when we define the function.
This is a parameter right here.
But when we actually call the function or method the arguments are the data we pass in to the parameters.
So a parameter is in the Declaration and the argument is what is actually called in the execution.
So in this example name is the parameter.
It's what is inside the function definition Nicklaus is the argument we pass in a lot of times you might
hear someone say something like let's define a function with two arguments.
Name one in name two.
Technically these are two parameters.
And down here if we passed then two things we would say let's call sing Happy Birthday with two arguments.
Nicolas and Julia.
So a minor distinction as in the grand scheme of things it's not going to change the behavior of your
code but it's important to know that there is a difference when you're discussing that or when you hear
me say argument versus parameter.
So one last example I will make a file called divide that P Y and all declare a function called divide
and it will just take two numbers.
Number one and number two.
And no there's a name for you know when we have like 1 divided by three.
One of these is called the operand or something.
I don't remember.
I'm just going to call him number one and one I'm to it would be better to get the official names though.
But I just want to show that the order does matter.
So if I just return one divided by number two and let's do a print divide and let's pass in one comma
5 and then do the same thing.
Five comma two.
Actually those two to come five and five come into the order does matter.
Whatever comes in first is going to be referred to as number one.
Whatever second is number two.
So if we look at what we get here let's run this Python 3 divide.
We get 0.4 and then 2.5.
So it does two divided by five first and then it has five divided by two.
So all that I want to show is the order matters.
If we just switch these it would achieve the opposite number two and common on one.
These would be switched in the results and this first one would divide five by two.
OK I'll leave it off there.
Next we have a quick little exercise.